JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away.
And we look forward to having
her back as
soon as possible.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: It's
the last full
week of the presidential race.
We talk with supporters at
Clinton and Trump
at campaign rallies at opposite
ends of the
country.
KRISTEN WOODY, Hillary Clinton
Supporter:
Hillary Clinton is
well-qualified to serve
our country, and she needs to be
the president.
CRYSTAL HOWARD, Donald Trump
Supporter: I
hope that he secures our borders
and hopefully
takes care of our economy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also ahead this
Monday: Critics
and defenders of FBI Director
James Comey
speak up, as his bombshell
announcement on
Hillary Clinton's e-mails
ripples through
the campaign.
And striving for peace amid 50
years of war:
where Colombia stands after a
rejected peace
deal brings FARC rebels back to
the negotiating
table.
JUAN MANUEL SANTOS, Colombian
President: I
am absolutely determined to not
allow the
country to go back to war with
FARC.
The FARC doesn't want it.
We don't want it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: For Donald Trump
and Hillary
Clinton, it's the start of the
last full week
of presidential campaigning.
And with just eight days to go
until Election
Day, the contest has been
injected with new
uncertainty.
John Yang begins our coverage.
JOHN YANG: With Election Day
just around the
corner, the hot topic on the
campaign today
was something that's dogged the
Democratic
nominee for nearly two years,
her use of a
private e-mail server as
secretary of state.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Now they apparently they want to
look at e-mails
of one of my staffers, and, by
all means,
they should look at them.
And I am sure they will reach
the same conclusion
they did when they looked at my
e-mails for
the last year: There is no case
here!
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Hillary is not the victim.
The American people are the
victim of this
corrupt system in every way.
And this is your one chance
right now, November
8, to change it.
JOHN YANG: The FBI is scouring
hundreds of
thousands of newly discovered
e-mails to see
if any of them are relevant to
its investigation
of how she handled classified
information.
The e-mails were discovered on
the computer
of Anthony Weiner, the disgraced
former congressman
from New York who's under
investigation for
allegedly sending sexual
messages to a 15-year-old
girl.
He's the estranged husband of
Huma Abedin,
one of Clinton's closest aides,
who was conspicuously
absent today from Clinton's
campaign plane.
Meanwhile, criticism continues
to build over
FBI Director James Comey's
decision to tell
Congress of the new e-mails
before they were
evaluated.
Former Attorney General Eric
Holder wrote
in today's Washington Post that:
"While Comey
is a man of integrity and honor,
he committed
a serious error with potentially
severe implications."
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary:
Director Comey is a man of
integrity.
He's a man of principle.
JOHN YANG: The issue also
dominated the day's
White House news briefing.
JOSH EARNEST: The president
doesn't believe
that Director Comey is
intentionally trying
to influence the outcome of an
election.
I'm just not going to be in a
position to,
frankly, either defend or
criticize decisions
that he's made with regard to
what to communicate
in public.
JOHN YANG: Meanwhile, CNN said
it had cut
ties with Donna Brazile, interim
chair of
the Democratic National
Committee.
That followed today's WikiLeaks
release of
another batch of hacked Clinton
campaign e-mails.
One of them was from Brazile,
then a CNN analyst,
the day before the network
hosted a debate
between Clinton and Bernie
Sanders in Flint,
Michigan.
She told campaign officials the
details of
one of the questions Clinton was
asked at
the event about the city's
tainted water crisis.
It's the second time hacked
e-mails showed
Brazile tipping the Clinton camp
to debate
questions.
CNN said it is completely
uncomfortable with
her interactions with the
campaign while a
network analyst.
Today, the candidates were in
key battleground
states.
Clinton was in Ohio, where polls
show a tight
race.
Trump was next door in Michigan,
trying to
gain ground in a state that
hasn't voted for
a Republican presidential
candidate since
1988, and where current polls
show him behind.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: Iraqi
troops fought their way inside
the city limits
of Mosul, two weeks after their
offensive
began.
They advanced after seizing the
last village
held by Islamic State fighters
on the city's
eastern edge.
Special forces are using armored
vehicles
and tanks to make headway.
They're backed by artillery and
airstrikes
targeting is positions.
Lebanon finally has a new
president, after
the top post sat vacant for two
years during
a political crisis.
The Parliament today elected
Michel Aoun.
He's 81 years old, and a strong
ally of the
Islamist militant group
Hezbollah.
The election took several rounds
of voting,
after extra ballots suspiciously
appeared
in the ballot box for the first
few counts.
Aoun's win is a victory for
pro-Iranian forces
in the region.
Turkey has opened another phase
of the crackdown
that began after last summer's
failed coup.
Today, police arrested the chief
editor and
11 senior staff of a major
opposition newspaper.
Supporters rallied outside the
newspaper offices,
one of the oldest in Turkey.
A cartoonist for the paper
condemned the attempts
to silence journalists.
MUSA KART, Cartoonist (through
translator):
This is ridiculous.
You will not intimidate anyone
by putting
pressure.
I want to say that.
It is impossible for people with
conscience
to endorse this scene.
You cannot justify this to the
world.
Today, I am being detained for
drawing cartoons,
and only for drawing cartoons.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just yesterday,
another 10,000
people were fired from their
government jobs
in Turkey.
More than 100,000 have been
dismissed since
the coup.
Police in Pakistan arrested
1,500 protesters
overnight in a bid to silence
critics of the
country's embattled prime
minister.
The effort continued today.
Police used tear gas and batons
against followers
of opposition leader Imran Khan
outside Islamabad,
the capital.
The protesters are demanding
Prime Minister
Nawaz Sharif step down, amid
allegations of
corruption.
The Swedish diplomat who saved
at least 20,000
Hungarian Jews from the
Holocaust has finally
been pronounced dead.
Raoul Wallenberg was arrested by
the Soviets
as World War II ended.
Later, they said he died of a
heart attack
in 1947.
Sweden continued to list
Wallenberg as missing,
but has now formally classified
him as deceased.
And on Wall Street, it was a
quiet start to
the week.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost just
over 18 points to close at
18142.
The Nasdaq fell one point, and
the S&P 500
dropped a fraction of a point.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the FBI director
earning both criticism and
praise for his
handling of the Clinton e-mail
case; and how
that news is playing out on the
campaign trail;
plus, best friends who dreamed
of making a
zombie movie unexpectedly rise
to fame.
plus, best friends who dreamed
of making a
zombie movie unexpectedly rise
to fame.
For more now on the FBI's
investigation into
the newly discovered e-mails
which may be
related to Hillary Clinton's
e-mail server,
we turn to New York Times
reporter Michael
Schmidt and Politico reporter
Josh Gerstein.
And we welcome both of you to
the "NewsHour."
Josh Gerstein, to you first.
We know that, late this
afternoon, there was
a letter sent by the Department
of Justice
to congressional committee
chairs.
Tell us what was in the letter.
Why was it sent?
JOSH GERSTEIN, Politico: Well,
it didn't say
very much.
It was basically responding to
Democratic
complaints that what Comey did,
FBI Director
Comey did, on Friday, notifying
that they
had essentially reactivated this
Clinton e-mail
investigation, had a lot of
spawned speculation
and had a political impact.
And they wanted more details on
if this complied
with Justice Department policy
and what's
going on in the investigation.
There were only really like two
substantive
sentences in this letter.
One of them said that they're
working on getting
this investigation done as
expeditiously as
possible.
And the other one really didn't
address this
issue of whether Comey might
have violated
Justice Department policy.
It just simply said the
department appreciated
the lawmakers' concerns.
We know from our other reporting
that Attorney
General Loretta Lynch and Deputy
Attorney
General Sally Yates strongly
advised Comey
against sending the letter, but
he felt he
needed to, so he did it anyway.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
Let me turn to you, Michael
Schmidt.
How is the Justice Department,
how is the
FBI handling this cache of
hundreds of thousands
of e-mails?
MICHAEL SCHMIDT, The New York
Times: What
they're doing is, they're
putting it in a
computer program to allows them
to see whether
there's duplicates.
That's the real question here,
whether any
of the e-mails they're in
possession of are
ones they had before that they
know are classified
or they know they looked at or
if these are
entirely a new batch.
If it's a new batch, this could
be a very
time-consuming process, because
the FBI would
then have to take those e-mails
and send them
out to other government agencies
and departments,
where the information could have
originated
from to see if they're
classified.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How is that
going?
Do we know how fast it's going?
MICHAEL SCHMIDT: Well...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is this a
laborious -- go ahead.
MICHAEL SCHMIDT: The process of
figuring out
the duplicates isn't hard.
The computer program can do that
pretty quickly.
So, they may have an idea even
right now or
even by tomorrow about sort of
the universe
of these.
There's hundreds of thousands of
e-mails,
but the computer will be able to
quickly weed
out which ones are new.
So, at that point, they will
sort of have
a sense of, OK, we have dozens,
hundreds,
thousands of new e-mails that we
really need
to dig into.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Josh
Gerstein, what is
known about what could be here?
They're looking for e-mails that
came from
Hillary Clinton's server.
Is there a belief that there is
classified
material here?
JOSH GERSTEIN: Well, you know,
the definitions
of classified have proved fairly
malleable
in this investigation.
So it really wouldn't surprise
me if there
are additional copies, as
Michael says, of
the same e-mails.
I don't think that would change
much in the
way this investigation went
forward.
Of course, if there are more
e-mails of a
different kind or a different
ilk and then
particularly if there are any
messages on
here that reflect people's
thoughts on this
issue, for example, if anyone
talks about,
like, I know this is classified,
but I'm sending
it anyway -- it seems very
unlikely anyone
would do that.
There wasn't really much
evidence of that
in the first tens of thousands
of e-mails
that the FBI went through.
But any message like that could
be potentially
incriminating for someone who
sent it, if
that exists.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Schmidt,
is it your
understanding from your
reporting that FBI
officials already know what's
here or are
they truly looking for something
unknown?
MICHAEL SCHMIDT: If you look at
Director Comey's
letter to Congress, he basically
says, we
haven't had a chance to look at
these yet.
I sort of find it hard to
believe that the
FBI would go with such an
aggressive step
of telling Congress without
really having
some idea of what is truly here.
If these end up to be just a
bunch of duplicates,
then this will have been a big
hubbub over
nothing.
So I wonder what the FBI really
knows here.
And did that lead them to push
as far as they
did?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it
certainly raises that
question.
Josh Gerstein, I understand you
just recently
heard from Huma Abedin's
attorney.
What are they saying?
What is she saying?
JOSH GERSTEIN: Well, we reported
on this,
this morning, that Huma Abedin
told colleagues
that she was mystified by why
there were any
of her e-mails on this computer.
She insisted this is Mr.
Weiner's laptop,
not hers, and she never stored
any e-mails
intentionally on this computer
at any point.
And so she's not sure exactly
how this all
came to pass.
She says she's cooperating with
the FBI, but
that they actually never reached
out to her
in connection with this most
recent dramatic
development in the
investigation.
There was thought maybe that she
would be
asked for her consent to go
through the e-mails.
That never happened.
The FBI instead ended up getting
a warrant,
perhaps because the laptop does
belong to
Mr. Weiner.
He probably wouldn't have
consented to them
going through it further.
And so they decided to go that
route.
But she is saying she doesn't
know how her
messages got on to this laptop
in the first
place.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, finally,
Michael Schmidt,
the reporting over the weekend
about whether
Director Comey acted because of
pressure of
some sort from FBI agents who
felt that he
wasn't being tough enough on
Hillary Clinton,
what has your reporting told you
about that?
MICHAEL SCHMIDT: Yes, I find
that hard to
believe.
I think that the line FBI agents
who really
knew what was going on with the
e-mail investigation
understood why Director Comey
came out and
said that the bureau wasn't
recommending charges.
I think they realized that there
wasn't criminal
intent there.
So the idea that Director Comey
would do this
facing some insurrection by FBI
agents, I
think, is probably not true.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, we're
going to leave
it there for now.
But I know both of you continue
to watch this
very closely.
Michael Schmidt, Josh Gerstein,
we thank you.
MICHAEL SCHMIDT: Thank you,
Judy.
JOSH GERSTEIN: Thanks for having
me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now for a
closer look at
Director Comey's decisions and
some of the
behind the scenes at the FBI, we
turn to Peter
Zeidenberg.
He's an attorney and partner at
Arent Fox.
He spent 17 years at the Justice
Department
as a federal prosecutor.
He's also joined 100 others in
an open letter
critical of Comey's actions.
And Daniel Richman, he's
professor at Columbia
Law School.
He's a former federal
prosecutor, himself,
and current policy adviser to
Director Comey.
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
Daniel Richman, let me start
with you.
As we have been discussing,
there is a lot
of criticism being directed at
Director Comey
for what he did on Friday.
What do you know about what
motivated him
and whether this was a result of
criticism
from the FBI or something else?
DANIEL RICHMAN, Columbia Law
School: I think
this is less about criticism
from anybody
and more about protecting the
credibility
of the organization and of his
own credibility
with Congress.
Here, we had him having made
statements about
the completion of the
investigation, about
the completion of the review of
the e-mails
back in July.
All of a sudden, he's confronted
with very
little notice with a trove of
e-mails that
appeared to be pertinent.
The next step is what to do.
And I think what he figured he
needed to do
immediately is get the
information that he
had these right out.
Was this extraordinary?
Yes.
But this is at a time when, as
everyone focused
on, there is an election going.
The last statement he made was
about the investigation
having been completed.
The last thing he wanted was
somewhere down
the line information coming out
that he sat
on these e-mails while the
election was -- and
during its final days, and while
Congress
was obviously monitoring the
progress.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Peter Zeidenberg,
what do you
make of that explanation?
PETER ZEIDENBERG, Former Justice
Department
Official: Well, I think it was
premature.
I think it was premature to
notify Congress
before he had had a chance to
actually examine
these e-mails.
And so I think it was a mistake.
And, frankly, I think it was
irresponsible
to do it and drop this bomb.
And, as Josh Gerstein mentioned,
it's very
possible, if not likely, that
all these e-mails
have been looked at already.
They could all be duplicates.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, do you -- are
you saying
you think he was trying to
influence the outcome
of the presidential race?
PETER ZEIDENBERG: No, I'm not.
And I'm not questioning Mr.
Comey's motives
or his integrity.
I just think it was a bad
decision.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean just on
the spur of
the moment?
I mean, how do you explain it?
PETER ZEIDENBERG: I think that,
from the context,
that he was -- Congress put a
lot of pressure
on him, and I think he was
concerned about
being viewed as being not
completely forthright.
But I think it would -- and he
was in a difficult
position.
But the fact is, he's going to
get criticism
either way.
And if there were criticism
after the fact
of not being forthcoming enough,
I think the
response is, I didn't know what
I had, and
it would have been irresponsible
to make a
pronouncement before examining
these e-mails.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Daniel Richman,
how do you
explain his decision to do this
against the
advice of both the attorney
general, Loretta
Lynch, the deputy attorney
general?
That's a pretty significant
recommendation
to go against.
DANIEL RICHMAN: Those are
significant recommendations,
but I should note that had they
wanted him
not to do that, they could have
ordered him
not to do that.
They do have hierarchical power
over him.
And I think it's really
interesting to note
that they didn't.
And there is a reason why they
didn't.
The fact is that this is an
extraordinary
place to be already.
Yes, there are important
departmental guidelines
that have really good reasons,
but, at the
same time, all guidelines are in
the hands
in enforcement and
interpretation and in
application
in the highest Justice
Department officials,
of which the director is one.
So, here you had two officials
who are hierarchically
above him who decided not to
prevent him from
doing it, left it to his
decision.
He made his decision.
Obviously, reasonable minds can
differ, and
they have differed.
But to put him out alone, as
they seem to
have done, and then snipe at him
from the
sides, seems to be not very
professional.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Peter Zeidenberg,
how do you
comment on that?
PETER ZEIDENBERG: Well, I think,
as I said,
he act on his own, apparently,
against advice.
And, you know, I think it's, as
I said, surprising,
disappointing and unprecedented.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We have been
hearing about
divisions inside the Justice
Department.
FBI officials -- there's been
reporting, most
of it anonymous, about FBI
officials critical
of Director Comey, that he was
perhaps feeling
pressure in that way.
We heard the reporters.
We heard Michael Schmidt of The
New York Times
say he didn't think that was the
case.
How do you read the atmosphere
inside the
Department of Justice over all
this?
PETER ZEIDENBERG: That would
call for a bit
of speculation on my part.
I would say it's unfortunate how
we got here.
There's a series of events.
I think, you know, President
Clinton getting
on the plane, Bill Clinton
getting on the
plane, and then Loretta Lynch
feeling that
she had to recuse herself, and
then handing
it over to Jim Comey, who then
felt constrained,
for some reasons, to give this
press conference,
which was really incredible,
back in July.
And then he testified and said,
I will keep
you apprised, to Congress.
I think that was a mistake, to
say, I will
keep you apprised.
It was premature.
The Congress shouldn't be
involved intimately
with an ongoing investigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just quickly,
Daniel Richman,
back to you.
Today, the Clinton campaign and
others pointed
out that there is now new
reporting that Director
Comey didn't want it to be known
that the
administration had confirmed
that the Russians
were behind the hacking of the
Democratic
National Committee, arguing that
it was too
close to the election, that this
would influence
the election.
Is there inconsistency here?
DANIEL RICHMAN: There is only
inconsistency,
in the sense that there are
really different
facts.
And I certainly don't know all
the facts with
regard to the internal
deliberations with
regard to the Russian hacking.
But, yes, it certainly is the
norm that the
department doesn't confirm or
deny investigations
and doesn't confirm or deny the
focus on any
particular party.
This goes back, as Mr.
Zeidenberg said, to
what was thought to have been
the need -- and
I think the director decided it
was -- back
in July to make a statement
about there not
being an investigation here.
Once you make the statement --
or rather that
it was completed -- once you
make that statement,
I think it does come with an
obligation to
correct it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
Peter Zeidenberg, just finally,
the public
watching all this, how much
confidence can
they have that the Justice
Department in general
is not suffused with politics?
PETER ZEIDENBERG: Well, they --
that really
has been my experience when I
was in the public
integrity section.
And I believe that still to be
the case that
the career prosecutors are not
political.
And, you know, unfortunately,
this has gotten
pulled into that, and I think it
will raise
questions in people's mind
that's unfair and
very unfortunate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Peter Zeidenberg,
Daniel Richman,
we thank you both.
DANIEL RICHMAN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Even before this
FBI news broke
last Friday, I wanted to go out
on the campaign
trail myself on this
next-to-the-last weekend
before Election Day to see both
candidates
up close, and talk directly to
voters.
I headed first to a Clinton
event in Daytona
Beach, Florida.
Twenty-four hours after FBI
Director Comey's
letter jolted the race for
president, these
Florida voters waiting to see
Hillary Clinton
said they were not deterred by
the news.
It doesn't bother you?
LISA PEREZ, Hillary Clinton
Supporter: No,
she has nothing to hide.
If she had, she -- no, she
doesn't.
Do you want Trump as our
president?
Really?
I mean, think about it.
You got to weigh the pros and
the cons.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In fact, Lisa
Perez and her
friend Barbara Ballach sounded
protective
of Clinton.
BARBARA BALLACH, Hillary Clinton
Supporter:
She has nothing to hide.
As soon as it gets exposed,
people can put
it to rest.
I'm not worried about her
e-mails.
I'm more worried about the
issues.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Like what?
For example, what?
What issues?
BARBARA BALLACH: Our economy.
I feel real strong about
immigration, and
what Trump is threatening to do.
He's going to build a wall.
He's going to ship people home
and break up
families.
He's going to shame the Statue
of Liberty.
LISA PEREZ: Right.
He's going to bring us down.
He's going to make this economy
worse.
He is going to divide us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Charles Ferguson
is a registered
Republican.
Did you consider Donald Trump?
CHARLES FERGUSON, Hillary
Clinton Supporter:
Absolutely not.
I think Donald Trump would be a
disaster for
this country.
I really think that it would be
absolute chaos,
and it would be -- he would be
-- he would
make our country his piggy bank,
and he'd
be the chief pig.
JUDY WOODRUFF: When Clinton
arrived to speak,
she raised the FBI's move.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
It's pretty strange to put
something like
that out with such little
information right
before an election.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But many who came
to see her,
like Marlo Duffy, ignored the
e-mail matter
altogether.
Who is this young person?
MARLO DUFFY, Hillary Clinton
Supporter: This
is Samuel.
He's six weeks old today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And why are you
and Samuel
here?
MARLO DUFFY: Because I want to
hear our future
president speak.
This is historical, the first
woman president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: To make that
happen, the campaign
is counting on canvassers,
supporters who
knock on doors, make contact
with voters who
need a nudge to get to the
polls.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: We just
reached a
milestone.
More than 200 million Americans
are registered
to vote.
And that includes 50 million
young people.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Including the
three Woody sisters.
KRISTEN WOODY, Hillary Clinton
Supporter:
There was no doubt in my mind
who my first
vote would be cast for.
Hillary Clinton is
well-qualified to serve
our country, and she needs to be
the president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Did you even
consider Mr. Trump?
LAUREN WOODY, Hillary Clinton
Supporter: No,
definitely not.
He's just ridiculous, and he
doesn't know
how to run the country.
He doesn't even know what he is
talking about
at any point.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you think
it would
mean if he were elected
president?
JENNIFER WOODY, Hillary Clinton
Supporter:
Oh, it would set us back years
in progress
as far as race relations and
people getting
along.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Their mother,
Debra, and dad,
Carlos, rounded out the picture.
DEBRA WOODY, Hillary Clinton
Supporter: I
feel that Hillary is going to be
the answer
for not only my girls, but all
young women
and our entire country.
CARLOS WOODY, Hillary Clinton
Supporter: Mr.
Trump is very volatile.
I am a registered Republican.
And I will not vote for him.
You have a Satan who was a
Republican.
JUDY WOODRUFF: did you mean to
compare Donald
Trump to Satan?
CARLOS WOODY: I think, when you
look at it,
he is a cold, callous
individual, and I don't
think he has a conscience.
I really don't.
So, the comparison is what it
is.
JUDY WOODRUFF: From Daytona
Beach, it was
on to Las Vegas, where we found
Donald Trump
newly energized by FBI
director's letter to
Congress.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Hillary has nobody but herself
to blame for
her mounting legal problems.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Trump's
accusations play directly
into the dark image of Clinton
that animates
so many of his supporters.
Where are you from?
CRYSTAL HOWARD, Donald Trump
Supporter: Chicago,
Illinois.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you came all
the way to
Las Vegas.
Why?
CRYSTAL HOWARD: Absolutely,
because I don't
want a liar in the office.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Crystal Howard
was especially
excited because the first time
she came to
see a Trump rally, it was so
crowded, she
couldn't get in.
What do you think he will do as
president?
CRYSTAL HOWARD: I hope that he
secures our
borders and hopefully takes care
of our economy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What needs to
change about
the economy?
CRYSTAL HOWARD: We need more
jobs.
We more production.
We need our jobs to quit leaving
America.
We need our children to have
jobs when they
get out of college.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Several Trump
fans told us
they know he has flaws, but like
him anyway.
RICHARD JARRETT, Donald Trump
Supporter: I
am supporting him mainly because
he is the
lesser of the two evils.
They both have a lot of baggage.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A registered
Democrat, Richard
Jarrett was actually a delegate
to the 1996
Democratic National Convention
in Chicago.
When you say baggage, what are
you referring
to?
RICHARD JARRETT: Well, I mean,
the -- he won't
release his tax returns.
There's questions about the
women who came
out against him.
There's other questions about
how up and down
he is, saying crazy stuff and
conspiracies
and so forth.
But I think all of that is still
better than
what the Clinton crime family
has to offer.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Rebecca Burr,
another Democrat
who supported Bernie Sanders in
the Nevada
caucuses, came wearing a prison
uniform.
"U.S. Department of Justice
inmate Hillary
Rodham Clinton."
REBECCA BURR, Donald Trump
Supporter: I'm
looking at the bigger picture
here.
I am looking for someone who
doesn't rig an
election.
I am looking for someone who
doesn't take
money from foreign interests
from overseas.
And I am not saying Trump is
perfect, but
he is far better than Hillary
Clinton any
day.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What was your
reaction when
the story came out about Mr.
Trump's comments
in 2005, the "Access Hollywood"
tape?
REBECCA BURR: I thought was that
that was
something that Hillary knew all
along.
I know that she has a lot of
tricks up her
sleeves.
And I wouldn't be surprised if
she has more
dirt on him.
But as far as, does it offend me
as a woman?
No.
DONALD TRUMP: As your president,
I will go
into the poorest communities and
work on a
national plan for
revitalization.
We will break decades of
failure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Failures that
Arizonan James
Barber says he knows firsthand.
JAMES BARBER, Donald Trump
Supporter: I want
him to go into the inner cities
and fix them.
It has not gotten better in the
50 years.
So, hopefully, he will bring a
much-needed
change.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And with that, we
turn to Politics
Monday.
Joining me are Amy Walter of The
Cook Political
Report, and from The New York
Times, Yamiche
Alcindor.
Tamara Keith is away.
Eight days to go.
Welcome to both of you.
So, Amy -- thumbs up.
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: We're
so close.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, where does
this race stand,
and how much effect is this FBI
news having?
AMY WALTER: It seems like the
race stands
at a place where it's always
wanted to go,
which is basically somewhere
between a two-
and a four-point Clinton lead.
Even before the FBI -- the notes
of the FBI
investigation came out, we
already started
to see a tightening of the race,
that Hillary
Clinton's big, big lead, in some
cases, it
was double digits, was narrowing
down, in
part because -- and this has
been a theme
we have seen this entire
campaign, Judy -- whenever
the focus is on one candidate,
the other candidate
benefits.
For most of October, the focus
was on Donald
Trump and all of his problems,
whether that
was debates or his other
troubles.
For the last week, even before
the FBI story,
it was about the Clinton
Foundation.
It was about Obamacare rates
increasing.
And so what we're starting to
see is that
Republicans started to come
home.
The focus was on her negative
traits.
So I think that this race still
is a Hillary
Clinton lead, smaller, and it
now comes down
to discussing the battleground
states, where
she continues to have an
advantage.
He may -- this may have stopped
his fall in
some of these states, but I
don't think that
it's enough to push him over the
top.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Yamiche, you
have been
watching these candidates on the
trail.
I know you were in North
Carolina over the
weekend.
And I'm going to ask you about
that in a moment.
But when you look at what the
candidates are
saying on the trail, do they
look like they
have changed their approach in
some way?
YAMICHE ALCINDOR, The New York
Times: I think
that Hillary Clinton has changed
her approach
a bit, because she was really
talking a lot
about Donald Trump and all his
problems, talking
a lot about his sexual assault
allegations,
and this idea of him being
unqualified, and
really doubling down on the idea
that she
has the experience.
Now we're seeing that she's also
kind of talking
a little bit about the FBI and
talking a little
bit about whether or not there
is any partisanship
or what's going on with the fact
that this
announcement was made so late in
the game.
So I think she's done a little
bit of shifting.
And I think that, when I talk to
a lot of
her supporters, they're kind of
wanting her
to go back to hitting Trump
full-time.
But Donald Trump, on the other
hand, has really,
I think, doubled down this idea
that she's
corrupt.
Regardless of whether or not the
FBI made
this announcement on Friday, he
would have
continued to say she is someone
who almost
like a Watergate, she has all
these issues
around her.
He was doubling down on the idea
of the Clinton
Foundation being corrupt, on
this idea that
she belongs in jail, and that
she really should
not have been allowed to run.
So, even though this FBI e-mail
-- he's kind
of in some ways seizing on the
opportunity
to talk about her e-mails
through the FBI,
he would have been talking about
these e-mails
regardless.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Amy, you
were telling
us that, with regard to the
e-mails, there
are still real questions out
there that have
to be answered.
AMY WALTER: Yes.
I mean, part of the reason that
we don't know
what impact it's going to have
is that we
really don't know what's in
there.
And we're only now starting to
get a sense
for whether we're going to get
an actual investigation
into them, that the -- the
search warrant
has actually been given.
So we're going to actually see
some digging
into these e-mails.
But you hear reporting
everything from we
could find something out maybe
before the
election is over about whether
there is anything
substantive in there to maybe
it's going to
be weeks and weeks from now.
Obviously, the more attention on
a drip, drip,
drip coming out of this, not
good for Hillary
Clinton.
Yamiche is right.
This is -- the Clinton campaign
wants this
to be ultimately a referendum on
Donald Trump,
not on e-mails.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, meantime,
Yamiche, as
we just said, you were in North
Carolina talking
to voters.
Do you get the sense that they
are changing,
that it's affecting how they
think about this
race at this point?
YAMICHE ALCINDOR: It's not
affecting who people
are choosing.
When I was out in North
Carolina, I went to
the city of Charlotte, and I
also went to
some suburbs surrounding the
city.
And people told me that they
were still going
to go with the person that they
were going
for.
So, when I talked to Trump
supporters, they
were still very much Trump
supporters.
When I talked to Clinton
supporters, they
were very much still in her
camp.
But this really motivated people
to leave
their houses.
I was in Charlotte, North
Carolina, at about
7:30 a.m. on a Saturday, and
there were people
lined waiting two hours already
to get into
the polls.
So, I talked to a young man who
said: "I saw
the news of the FBI e-mails
flash on my work
computer on Friday and I said,
I'm waking
up at 8:00 to come to the polls
and I want
to vote early."
So, I think that that is what
has been going
on here.
It's not so much changing
people's ideas as
much as it is about this idea
that both people
-- both sets of supporters think
that the
other supporters are going to be
motivated
by this news and, thus, they
want to show
out.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Interesting.
And, Amy, you were also talking
to us about
the so-called down-ballot races,
the Senate
races in particular that may be
affected by
this.
AMY WALTER: This was the biggest
concern from
Republicans about a
week-and-a-half ago was
that Republicans were just so
enthusiastic,
were so depressed by how poorly
Donald Trump
had done in the debates, and
that they just
were not going to show up and
vote.
This may be something that help
gets them
out to vote, is what they're
hoping right
now, again, motivated, oh,
that's right, this
is what don't like about Hillary
Clinton,
it's why we have to come out and
vote, and
also maybe bolsters the argument
that a lot
of down-ballot candidates are
making that
they need to be a check on
Hillary Clinton.
Maybe you still think Hillary
Clinton is going
to win the presidency, but don't
you want
to have a Republican in office,
given what
we know about Hillary Clinton?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yamiche, what are
you hearing?
What do you see in your
reporting about these
Senate races that are still
really close?
YAMICHE ALCINDOR: What I'm
hearing from voters
-- and I have heard a little bit
about from
Republicans who don't want to
vote for Donald
Trump, because they don't see
him as qualified,
but then who then are going to
split their
ticket and go and vote for
Republicans to
go down-ballot.
The interesting thing, though,
is that a lot
of people for the last eight
years have watched
Barack Obama -- or -- excuse me
-- maybe for
the last four years -- have
watched Barack
Obama really struggle with this
idea that
he couldn't get a lot of things
passed because
of the Republican majorities in
both the House
and the Senate.
So, when I talk to people who
say, I don't
want another four years of that,
I don't want
another Hillary Clinton to have
to face the
same issues that Barack Obama
faced, so even
though there's this idea that
they want to
have a check on Hillary Clinton,
a lot of
people say, I actually want her
to be able
to go in there and get things
done.
So, that's, I think, why a lot
of Democrats
are coming out and talking to me
about this
idea of voting down-ballot and
then the importance
of local races.
Of course, Republicans are happy
to split
their ticket because they don't
want to see
Hillary Clinton enact some of
the things that
she has been talking about.
Really, one of the most
important things is
immigration reform.
She said in her first 100 days
that she's
going to dealing with that
issue.
And a lot of Republicans are
really worried
that she might kind of have this
idea of open
borders and really not be as
tough as they
want her to be.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The clock is
ticking.
It's closer than ever, eight
days away.
Amy Walter, Yamiche Alcindor,
thank you both.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We go now to the
nation of
Colombia, where one of the most
brutal and
long-lasting civil wars in South
America appeared
to be coming to a peaceful end
earlier this
month.
But the landmark peace agreement
between the
government and rebels was
narrowly rejected
in a nationwide referendum.
Now both sides are struggling to
pick up the
pieces.
Special correspondent Nadja
Drost and her
producer, Bruno Federico, have
this report.
NADJA DROST: It happened barely
more than
a month ago, but it seems like
another age,
a moving and hopeful ceremony in
the port
city of Cartagena to mark what
many Colombians
never thought possible: the
armed insurgency
FARC and the government signing
off on a peace
agreement to end 52 years of
war.
In front of hundreds at the
shore, a women's
choir sings a goodbye to war and
a welcome
to peace.
They brought their traditional
songs of mourning
to the ceremony from here,
Bojaya, a town
reached only by river in the
isolated northwest
of Colombia, in a church, where
they commemorate
those who lost their lives in
what has become
a symbol of the war's brutality.
on May 2, 2002, hundreds of
residents were
taking shelter in this church
from fighting
between paramilitaries and FARC
guerrillas,
when the guerrillas launched a
homemade mortar
round.
It landed inside the church,
killing 79 people,
over half of them children.
Later, thousands fled, tearing
apart the community.
Since then, the church has been
rebuilt and
maintained in memory of the
victims and survivors
like Macaria Allin.
MACARIA ALLIN, Survivor (through
translator):
I was here with my three
children.
The cylinder bomb fell over
there.
This whole area was full of
people.
Everyone who was around here
died, everyone.
No one was left alive.
NADJA DROST: The village was
eventually abandoned,
its residents displaced
throughout the region,
until it was relocated a mile
upstream.
Since the massacre, Bojaya has
continued to
suffer the worst of the
conflict, caught in
the crossfire of FARC guerrillas
fighting
the army and paramilitaries, the
river and
its banks converted into a large
cemetery.
Maxima Asprilla is one of the
women who sang
in Cartagena.
MAXIMA ASPRILLA, Colombia
(through translator):
When I was singing -- and that's
why we sang
with such emotion and effort --
the only thing
I was thinking was, we want
peace.
NADJA DROST: Perhaps because of
being so hard-hit
by the conflict, Bojaya
residents voted overwhelmingly,
95 percent, in support of the
peace accords.
Now, with the peace deal
rejected nationally
and mired in uncertainty, many
here fear they
may have lost their only and
long-awaited
chance to live in peace.
MACARIA ALLIN (through
translator): We feel
abandoned, betrayed.
We thought they would support
us, those who
have lived the war.
The half-country who voted for
no turned their
back on us.
NADJA DROST: The peace process,
throughout
its four years of negotiations,
has generated
fierce political debate.
And the criticism by vocal
opponents prompted
President Juan Manuel Santos to
call the referendum,
with the hope that a show of
public support
could strengthen the deal.
JUAN MANUEL SANTOS, Colombian
President: Many
people warned me against it, but
I said this
is something that I believe will
be positive
for the whole process.
The decision backfired because
we lost by
a very small margin.
NADJA DROST: With only 37
percent of voters
bothering to go to the polls,
and the no side
winning by a mere 53,000 votes
out of 13.5
million, there is perhaps no one
more consumed
with why the deal was rejected
than the man
who just won the Nobel Peace
Prize for its
signing.
Why do you think that Colombians
voted against
the peace accords?
JUAN MANUEL SANTOS: Of course,
there's been
a lot of misinformation, a lot
of lack of
information.
And maybe I'm a bit responsible
for not being
more effective in this process
of telling
people what the agreement was
all about.
NADJA DROST: The peace accords
were defeated
by a no campaign led by Santos
archrival and
former President Alvaro Uribe
and his Central
Democratic Party.
But the campaign has been
questioned over
the claims it made to voters:
that the country
would become a socialist state
like Venezuela,
or that FARC leaders would
receive impunity
for their crimes.
Rodrigo Uprimny, a
constitutional law expert
close to the peace talks, says
the no campaign
even made claims that had
nothing to do with
the peace accord.
RODRIGO UPRIMNY, Constitutional
Law Expert:
They say to them, these peace
accords are
going to destroy your family
because this
peace accord is in favor of
homosexuality,
which quite clearly is not true.
NADJA DROST: Ivan Zuluaga, the
Central Democratic
Party's director and a former
presidential
candidate who lost to Santos in
the last election,
says the no vote's victory sends
a clear mandate
to overhaul the agreements.
IVAN ZULUAGA, Director, Central
Democratic
Party: They have to recognize
that Colombians
vote for it, so they have to
accept not only
the government, but even the
FARC deep changes,
fundamental changes.
NADJA DROST: FARC leaders have
said they are
open to making some changes, but
warn it will
be difficult change the
agreement's core.
We traveled via river from
Bojaya to visit
a FARC unit.
Mid-level commanders known as
Pablo Atrato
and Natalie Mistral, a French
citizen, led
us to a camp where their troops,
like thousands
of others spread out amongst
jungle enclaves,
are waiting amid the
uncertainty.
Both Mistral and Atrato were at
negotiations
in Havana.
PABLO ATRATO, FARC (through
translator): After
years of negotiations, to
resolve all this
in two or three months, I don't
think it's
possible.
NADJA DROST: The peace accords
will grant
immunity to much of the FARC's
rank-and-file,
but those accused of crimes
against humanity
will receive alternative
sentences in exchange
for confessing the truth, not
jail, but restrictions
on their liberty.
But many in the opposition say
that is unacceptable.
IVAN ZULUAGA: They have to go to
jail five
years.
If they are in jail, they are
not able to
be eligible politically.
And, instead of that, the
treatment says,
and the agreement with the FARC
says, that
they aren't going to jail and
they can be
eligible for any major president
or congress,
for example.
RODRIGO UPRIMNY: But that's --
that's the
deal.
If you want an armed political
-- an armed
political actor like the FARC to
become a
peaceful political actor, then
you can not
block them to make politics.
That's the crucial issue in a
peace accord.
NATALIE MISTRAL, FARC (through
translator):
I'm not willing to spend time in
jail, and
I'm not willing to let my
superiors go to
jail either.
To serve jail time would nullify
us politically.
It's unacceptable within a peace
negotiation.
NADJA DROST: While Santos has
said his government
is trying to satisfy the no
side, he has made
clear there will be disagreement
on issues
in reaching a new agreement.
But Santos' government and the
FARC face an
enormous challenge: making
sufficient changes
to the peace agreement to gain
broader support
of the public, without making
the tectonic-shifting
changes that could break it
down.
PABLO ATRATO (through
translator): The risks
are that this gets drawn out and
we end up
again in a spiral of war.
I think that's how it could end
up, if we're
not capable in the next two or
three months
to find a way out of this.
JUAN MANUEL SANTOS: I am
absolutely determined
not to allow the country to go
back to war
with FARC.
The FARC doesn't want it.
We don't want it.
And we're trying to find the
best and the
most rapid path to get out of
this situation,
and that's to have a new
agreement as soon
as possible.
NADJA DROST: Santos told us he
hopes to get
a new peace deal by the end of
the year.
But delay could jeopardize the
current cease-fire.
Bojaya residents like Maxima
Asprilla are
finally feeling peace in their
town, and have
seen changes among the FARC.
MAXIMA ASPRILLA (through
translator): After
having signed the cease-fire,
they got into
a different mode and the tension
went down.
NADJA DROST: In fact, the FARC
even apologized
to the community last year.
MAN (through translator): We ask
you to forgive
us.
NADJA DROST: After so many years
of singing
lamentations for their dead,
these women hope
to have a reason to compose a
song in celebration
of life, and the peace they so
badly want.
"We Colombians," they sing, "ask
that war
not repeat."
But whether Bojaya's plea for
peace is answered
is far from certain.
From Bojaya, Colombia, reporting
with Bruno
Federico, I'm Nadja Drost for
the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can see
more of Nadja's
interview with the Colombian
president on
our Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
Now a special treat on this
Halloween, a story
about the magic of movies and
zombies.
The "NewsHour"'s Mike Melia has
our update.
MIKE MELIA: You don't often get
to see someone's
dreams come true, even if they
are the stuff
of nightmares.
We first met Sam Suchmann and
Mattie Zufelt
two years ago, when all they had
was a big
idea and a Kickstarter to make
an epic zombie
movie.
MATTIE ZUFELT, Filmmaker: It's
going to be
like between horror and comedy,
drama, same
kind of thing.
SAM SUCHMANN, Filmmaker: We have
every average,
everyday teen drama, like love
triangles,
or like heartbreaks or betrayals
or people
living like...
MATTIE ZUFELT: Or it could be
like teenagers'
secret life.
SAM SUCHMANN: What I do to
Mattie is, I leave
him behind.
MATTIE ZUFELT: Yes.
SAM SUCHMANN: And that is not
cool.
So...
MATTIE ZUFELT: No.
You can't leave a friend behind.
MIKE MELIA: The best friends --
both have
Down syndrome -- first met at
the Special
Olympics in grade school.
From his living room in Rhode
Island, Sam
told us a very personal reason
for wanting
to make the movie.
SAM SUCHMANN: My whole life, I
feel like I
never fit in anywhere or had a
voice, but
someday, that will change.
I will be somebody.
And that day is today.
MIKE MELIA: In many ways, Sam
was right.
Their lives were about to change
in dramatic
ways.
Their Kickstarter raised nearly
$70,000.
They gathered together family,
friends, along
with film industry and special
effects professionals.
It was all happening.
We got invited on set for a day,
when they
were filming a party scene on a
yacht.
Sam and Mattie originally wanted
a cruise
ship, but this was close.
Peter Farrelly, behind hits like
"Dumb and
Dumber" and "Something About
Mary," was also
on set.
I was transformed into a zombie
-- but more
on that later.
The day before, "The Jersey
Shore"'s D.J.
Pauly D. was there.
He had been at the top of Sam
and Mattie's
wish list for celebrity cameos.
In some ways, they were becoming
famous.
MATTIE ZUFELT: I want to be
famous because
I want to be a deejay.
SAM SUCHMANN: Yes.
I want to be famous because I
love to sing.
MATTIE ZUFELT: Yes.
He has a good voice.
SAM SUCHMANN: I'm a singer.
And I can rap, too.
I'm do a little rap.
Maybe you want to hear.
MIKE MELIA: I would love to hear
it.
Yes.
SAM SUCHMANN: Right here.
(RAPPING)
MATTIE ZUFELT: Yes, that's
really good.
You're good.
MIKE MELIA: There are no record
deals yet,
but since our story first aired,
Sam and Mattie
have been profiled by "People"
magazine, "The
Today Show," The Huffington
Post, just to
name a few.
Microsoft flew them to L.A. as
the official
spokes-dudes for the Special
Olympics World
Games in 2015.
SAM SUCHMANN: Stay tuned for
more.
MIKE MELIA: And they also made
the movie.
"Spring Break Zombie Massacre"
premiered in
September in their hometown of
Providence.
A week later, they were guests
on Conan O'Brien's
show.
CONAN O'BRIEN, Host, "Late Night
With Conan
O'Brien": What I love about what
you guys
have done is, you met years ago,
you talked
about this dream, and you made
it happen.
Here we are, all these years
later, and you
made you made your zombie movie,
and you had
a premiere, a premiere that the
press attended.
Everyone loves the movie.
And then you fly out here to
come on our show.
This is pretty spectacular.
MIKE MELIA: It is pretty
spectacular.
I caught up with them for the
film's New York
City premiere.
They pulled up to the red carpet
in a bloody
SUV, to a long line of fans
waiting outside.
Don't be confused.
This is not a kids' movie.
JESSE SUCHMANN, Brother of Sam
Suchmann: This
is a hard R, OK?
Like, there is guts.
There is urinating on guts, OK?
MIKE MELIA: Jesse Suchmann is
Sam's brother.
He helped put together the
original Kickstarter
and has helped orchestrate
everything since.
JESSE SUCHMANN: I have learned
so much from
them.
And I want to be like them.
And I think that their
confidence in their
ideas and their clarity of
vision and their
confidence in themselves is so
intoxicating
to everyone around, that it
drives everybody
to do better.
MIKE MELIA: It's been a wild
ride for me,
too.
Remember when I said I became a
zombie?
Turns out -- and here's a
mini-spoiler -- in
the climatic fight scene, I get
my head split
open by a record thrown by D.J.
Pauly D.
After the New York screening, I
asked Sam
and Mattie what it's been like
for them.
MATTIE ZUFELT: It is a hell of a
ride.
It is, never expecting much
people -- never
expecting people to see this
movie.
SAM SUCHMANN: Chase your dreams,
and always
follow your dreams.
Don't let anyone tell you
different.
And don't be a victim to
bullies.
And do not party like me and
Mattie.
I'm looking forward for having
more Sam and
Mattie adventures on the way.
MATTIE ZUFELT: Yes, there will.
SAM SUCHMANN: Yes, there is
Mattie deejaying
and dancing.
And I can't wait.
It's going to be fun.
MIKE MELIA: Just yesterday, they
were featured
on "CBS Sunday Morning."
SAM SUCHMANN: I don't do it for
fame.
I do it because I love it and
because...
MATTIE ZUFELT: I'm doing it for
the money.
QUESTION: You're doing it for
the money?
MATTIE ZUFELT: Yes.
SAM SUCHMANN: Well, I do it
because I love
it.
QUESTION: Have you gotten rich
on this so
far?
MATTIE ZUFELT: Not yet.
MIKE MELIA: They are also making
a documentary
about their journey.
Tim Forster is leading that
project.
TIM FORSTER, Documentary
Filmmaker: We that
as being kind of the big
culmination of this
whole thing.
Obviously, the movie is --
stands on its own,
and we think professionals are
going to love
it, people are going to love it
on its own.
But to see the time, the effort,
the patience
involved with making this movie,
that's the
real story.
MIKE MELIA: On this Halloween,
updating a
feel-good zombie story, I'm Mike
Melia for
the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sam and Mattie
have a big future.
We want to be there to cover the
whole thing.
Finally, we stay in the
Halloween spirit for
our "NewsHour" Shares, something
that caught
our eye that we thought would be
of interest
to you, too.
It turns out the vampire bat is
hardly the
agent of evil its association
with Dracula
would suggest.
We asked Smithsonian researcher
and vampire
bat expert Gerry Carter to clear
up some of
the myths.
GERRY CARTER, Smithsonian
Researcher: I'm
Gerry Carter, and I study
food-sharing relationships
in vampire bats.
Vampire bats are small,
neotropical bats.
They weigh about 30 grams, and
they drink
nothing but blood.
The legend of the vampire
actually came first
before the bat was discovered by
Europeans.
So, the bat is actually named
after the monster,
and not the other way around.
One idea about vampire bats
that's very common,
especially in Latin America, is
that most
bats are vampire bats.
And that's certainly not true.
There are only three species of
vampire bats,
and there are roughly 1,300
species of bats.
The common vampire bat usually
feeds on mammals
and livestock.
The white-winged vampire bat
will often climb
along the underside of a branch
to feed on
the toes of a bird.
And the hairy-legged vampire bat
will actually
land on a bird like a chicken
and hide in
the feathers.
So, it's like a giant tick.
Vampire bats have these
razor-sharp teeth
that they use to make a small
cut, and then
they lick the wound.
And they have an anticoagulant
in their saliva
which keeps the blood flowing,
and they will
take about a tablespoon of
blood.
And if they're successful, then
the animal
is none the wiser, never finds
out that the
bat was there until the next
morning maybe.
And one of the interesting
things about the
biology of vampire bats is that
they're very
susceptible to starvation.
So they don't put on fat, they
don't store
energy, and they can starve if
they miss more
than two meals.
But other bats in their roosts
will often
regurgitate a portion of their
blood meals
to feed them.
So, you can fast an individual,
and then another
individual will go and save that
individual's
life, essentially.
And that's one of the things
that makes the
vampire case so interesting in
terms of an
example of cooperation in
nature.
These vampire bats, they're like
these alien
life forms, and yet there are so
many things
that they do that seem very
convergent with
what people do, with what
primates do.
Vampire bats do things like they
groom each
other.
They seem to have these
friendship-like relationships.
And yet everything else about
them is so strange.
I don't think people should be
scared of vampire
bats.
Even within bats, I think
vampire bats are
probably the most hated and
feared of all
of the bats.
But I think, the more you learn
about vampire
bats, the more you realize just
how incredible
they are.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I just saw one
fly through
the studio.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," happy
Halloween, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," happy
Halloween, and good night.